+++
title = "The active kinome: The modern view of how active protein kinase networks fit in biological research"
date = "2021-12-31"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["K. Alganem", "A. R. Hamoud", "J. F. Creeden", "N. D. Henkel", "A. S. Imami", "A. W. Joyce", "V. Wg Ryan", "J. B. Rethman", "R. Shukla", "S. M. O'Donovan", "J. Meller", "R. McCullumsmith"]
publication = "In: Curr Opin Pharmacol, (62), _pp. 117-129_, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coph.2021.11.007, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34968947"
abstract = "Biological regulatory networks are dynamic, intertwined, and complex systems making them challenging to study. While quantitative measurements of transcripts and proteins are key to investigate the state of a biological system, they do not inform the \"active\" state of regulatory networks. In consideration of that fact, \"functional\" proteomics assessments are needed to decipher active regulatory processes. Phosphorylation, a key post-translation modification, is a reversible regulatory mechanism that controls the functional state of proteins. Recent advancements of high-throughput protein kinase activity profiling platforms allow for a broad assessment of protein kinase networks in complex biological systems. In conjunction with sophisticated computational modeling techniques, these profiling platforms provide datasets that inform the active state of regulatory systems in disease models and highlight potential drug targets. Taken together, system-wide profiling of protein kinase activity has become a critical component of modern molecular biology research and presents a promising avenue for drug discovery."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
featured = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
