+++
title = "KRSA: An R package and R Shiny web application for an end-to-end upstream kinase analysis of kinome array data"
date = "2021-12-18"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["E. A. K. DePasquale", "K. Alganem", "E. Bentea", "N. Nawreen", "J. L. McGuire", "T. Tomar", "F. Naji", "R. Hilhorst", "J. Meller", "R. E. McCullumsmith"]
publication = "In: PLoS One, (16), 12, _pp. e0260440_, https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0260440, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34919543"
abstract = "Phosphorylation by serine-threonine and tyrosine kinases is critical for determining protein function. Array-based platforms for measuring reporter peptide signal levels allow for differential phosphorylation analysis between conditions for distinct active kinases. Peptide array technologies like the PamStation12 from PamGene allow for generating high-throughput, multi-dimensional, and complex functional proteomics data. As the adoption rate of such technologies increases, there is an imperative need for software tools that streamline the process of analyzing such data. We present Kinome Random Sampling Analyzer (KRSA), an R package and R Shiny web-application for analyzing kinome array data to help users better understand the patterns of functional proteomics in complex biological systems. KRSA is an All-In-One tool that reads, formats, fits models, analyzes, and visualizes PamStation12 kinome data. While the underlying algorithm has been experimentally validated in previous publications, we demonstrate KRSA workflow on dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in male (n = 3) and female (n = 3) subjects to identify differential phosphorylation signatures and upstream kinase activity. Kinase activity differences between males and females were compared to a previously published kinome dataset (11 female and 7 male subjects) which showed similar global phosphorylation signals patterns."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
